Sync Policy (#295)
gigantum/hybrid-object-store: resources/docs/server/sync_policy.md

# Policy based Dataset synchronization
The Sync Service allows for a user defined policy to be applied to object store bucket notifications allowing the user to apply a custom filter to what files are synchonized between datasets.

## Policy Specification
The following section defines the Sync Policy JSON object that is used to filter which files are synced between datasets.

> Note: all fields are required unless noted otherwise

### PolicyObject
```json
{
  "Version": "1",
  "Statements": [StatementObject, ...]
}
```

A PolicyObject consists of the following fields:
* Version: Currently only Version 1 is defined and supported

> * Statements: A list of StatementObjects whose logic will be `or` together for a final policy decision

Reviewer: if they are logically `or`d together, how do we implement something like "don't sync this file if it has this metadata tag". It seems like if some other statement matched the file would still sync.

Reviewer: i guess you'd have to use 1 statement with multiple `ConditionObjects`?

Reviewer: Maybe we could do something with the "Effect" field to handle this?

Author: Yes, use one statement with multiple conditions. If you see the second example I note that because there are two different statements that if a raw file has the metadata then it will be synced. If you want both conditions to apply then you would need to merge the two statements.

### StatementObject
```json
{
  "Id": String,
  "Effect": EffectField,
  "Conditions": [ConditionObject, ...]
}
```

A StatementObject consists of the following fields:
* Id: An identifier for the statement
  - No meaning is given to this field by the Hoss
* Effect: An EffectField setting how the conditions should be interpreted
* Conditions: A list of ConditionObjects whose logic will be `and` together for a final statement decision

### ConditionObject
```json
{
  "Left": OperandField,
  "Right": OperandField,
  "Operator": OperatorField,
}
```

A ConditionObject consists of the following fields:
* Left: The left side of the condition
* Right: The right side of the condition
* Operator: The operation to apply to the two operands

### EfectField
```json
"Effect": String
```

An EffectField can have one of the following values

> * `"Require"`: Require that the attached policy decision be used in the final policy decision

Reviewer: Not 100% sure about this. Wouldn't all things be "Require"?

Author: Just copying your initial comment about policy. Looking at AWS policy they use `Allow` and `Deny`. I couldn't come up with what an inverted `Require` effect would be. I guess we could change it to be something like `One` and `All` to toggle between oring and anding the different conditionals together. If we do this then we should also have `Effect` at the policy object level too.

Author: Changed to `AND` or `OR` values and added an `Effect` field to the policy object. Made the `Effect` fields optional, defaulting to the current behavior.

### OperandField
```json
"Left": String
"Right": String
```

> An OperandField can have one of the following values

Reviewer: another thing to add would be the type or event (e.g. PUT or DELETE). It would be useful to like sync writes, but never sync deletes for example.

Author: Lets use `event:operation`, from your more complicated approach

Author: Added

* `"object:key"`: The key of the object that is the focus of the notification message

> * `"object:metadata:<key>"`: The key of the object's metadata to use in the conditional

Reviewer: i think we want something that's like "does this key exist" and "does this key have this value"

Reviewer: If that's not too complicated

Author: We could allow comparing against `null` to mean no value
I think for checking key existence we need another operator, like `has`, `contains`, `key` or something similar.
```json
{
   Left: "object:metadata",
   Right: "my-key-1",
   Operator: "has"
}
```

Reviewer: this is pretty clear to me. I think good to include. I don't want to expand functionality too much, but checking for a key's existence seems like useful feature and based off user feedback of a desired capability (i.e. use tags to recognize "sensitive" data that should not be synced)

Author: Added both

  "Effect": EffectField,
  "Statements": [StatementObject, ...]
}
```

A PolicyObject consists of the following fields:
* Version: Currently only Version 1 is defined and supported
* Effect: An EffectField setting how the statements should be combined together
  - Optional, defaults to `"OR"`
* Statements: A list of StatementObjects whose logic will be combined together for a final policy decision

### StatementObject
```json
{
  "Id": String,
  "Effect": EffectField,
  "Conditions": [ConditionObject, ...]
}
```

A StatementObject consists of the following fields:
* Id: An identifier for the statement
  - No meaning is given to this field by the Hoss
* Effect: An EffectField setting how the conditions should be combined together
  - Optional, defaults to `"AND"`
* Conditions: A list of ConditionObjects whose logic will be combined together for a final statement decision

### ConditionObject
```json
{
  "Left": OperandField,
  "Right": OperandField,
  "Operator": OperatorField,
}
```

A ConditionObject consists of the following fields:
* Left: The left side of the condition
* Right: The right side of the condition
* Operator: The operation to apply to the two operands

> ### EfectField

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### EffectField
```

* `"object:metadata"`: The object's metadata dictionary
  - Used with the `"has"` operator to check if a metadata key exists
* `"object:metadata:<key>"`: The key of the object's metadata to use in the conditional
  - `"<key>"`: Is a string containing the name of the metadata key
* `"<static>"`: A static hard coded string to compare against
* `"<glob>"`: A glob expression to compare against
  - Only supports `"=="` and `"!="` operators
* `null`: Used to check if there is a value

### OperatorField
```json
"Operator": String
```

An OperatorField can have one of the following values
* `"=="`: Returns true if the two operands are equal
* `"!="`: Returns true if the two operands are not equal
* `">"`: Returns true if the left operand is greater than the right operand
* `"<"`: Returns true if the left operand is less than the right operand
* `">="`: Returns true if the left operand is greater than or equal to the right operand
* `"<="`: Returns true if the left operand is less than or equal to the right operand
* `"has"`: Returns true if the left operand dictionary contains the right operand key

## Example Policies

### Existing Behavior

> This policy will reproduce the current (pre-policy) sync service behavior of copying all files and updating the search indicies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This policy will reproduce the current (pre-policy) sync service behavior replicating all file create, update & delete operations, along with updating the search index for the server where the sync service is running.
```

* Operator: The operation to apply to the two operands

### EffectField
```json
"Effect": String
```

An EffectField can have one of the following values
* `"AND"`: Logically and all of the sub-object logic together
* `"OR"`: Logically inclusivly or all of the sub-object logic together

### LeftOperandField
```json
"Left": String
```

An LeftOperandField can have one of the following values
* `"event:operation"`: The type of notification event generated for the file
  - The value is either `"PUT"` (for create or update) or `"DELETE"` (for delete)
* `"object:key"`: The key of the object that is the focus of the notification message
* `"object:size"`: The size of the object (in bytes) that is the focus of the notification message
* `"object:metadata"`: The object's metadata dictionary
  - Used with the `"has"` operator to check if a metadata key exists
* `"object:metadata:<key>"`: The key of the object's metadata to use in the conditional
  - `"<key>"`: Is a string containing the name of the metadata key
  - All metadata values are strings

### RightOperandField
```json
"Right": String|Number
```

An RightOperandField can have one of the following values

> * `""`: An empty string can be used to verify that a metadata value doesn't

Author: Yes. Don't know what happened there.
